# Learn How To Use Option - Avoid Null


在本节, we will show how to use **Option**, **Some** and **None**.

 

If you have used other programming languages in the past such as **Java** or **.NET**, I'm pretty sure that you must have seen your share of **NullPointerException**!

 

By making use of **Option, Some **and** None**, Scala encourages you to write functions with no side effects as we've described in the [Scala Features tutorial](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/scala-introduction/scala-functional-programming-features/). As a result, all your headaches with **NullPointerException** should go away :)

## 步骤

###1. How to use Option and None - a basic example
Let's declare a simple String called **glazedDonutTaste**. But instead of its type being just a String, you will declare it as an **Option** of type String using the syntax `Option[String]`.

You can then assign its value using the **Some** class and pass in your donut taste String of **Very Tasty**.

```scala
println("Step 1: How to use Option and None - a basic example")
val glazedDonutTaste: Option[String] = Some("Very Tasty")
println(s"Glazed Donut taste = ${glazedDonutTaste.get}")

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Step 1: How to use Option and None - a basic example
Glazed Donut taste = Very Tasty

```

**NOTE:**

- Because we have wrapped our String into an Option, to retrieve its value we call the **get()** function as shown above.
- But calling **get()** in a production system is generally a **code smell** as you may end up with the same **NullPointerException.**

###2. How to use Option and None - a basic example
Let's use another variable called **glazedDonutName** which is also an **Option** of type String. But instead of initializing it to a String which is wrapped up into a **Some **class as shown in Step 1, let's set its value to **None.**

```scala
println("\nStep 2: How to use Option and None - a basic example")
val glazedDonutName: Option[String] = None
println(s"Glazed Donut name = ${glazedDonutName.getOrElse("Glazed Donut")}")

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Step 2: How to use Option and None - a basic example
Glazed Donut name = Glazed Donut

```

**NOTE:**

- We've used the handy **getOrElse()** function from the **Option** to supply a default value.
- If you were to call the **get()** function as shown in Step 1, you will get the exception `java.util.NoSuchElementException: None.get`.
- At this point, you may be asking yourself that this exception is similar to your **NullPointerException.**
- And you are absolutely right! But [Pattern Matching](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-2-learning-basics-scala-programming/scala-tutorial-learn-how-to-use-pattern-matching/) is your friend :) let's look at Step 3 below.

###3. How to use Pattern Matching with Option

Feel free to review the two previous tutorials [Pattern Matching](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-2-learning-basics-scala-programming/scala-tutorial-learn-how-to-use-pattern-matching/) and [Tuples](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-2-learning-basics-scala-programming/scala-tutorial-learn-how-to-use-tuples-pattern-match/).

You've already seen from Step 2 that you can use the **getOrElse() ** function to get a default value in case your variable had no data.

But you can also use [Pattern Matching](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-2-learning-basics-scala-programming/scala-tutorial-learn-how-to-use-pattern-matching/) as shown below:

```scala
println("\nStep 3: How to use Pattern Matching with Option")
glazedDonutName match {
  case Some(name) => println(s"Received donut name = $name")
  case None       => println(s"No donut name was found!")
}

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Step 3: How to use Pattern Matching with Option
No donut name was found!

```

**NOTE:**

- Sure, you can argue that we have not achieved much!
- But, let's take a pause and assume that you were were calling some **function** to populate your variable **glazedDonutName**
- As a consumer of that function call, you would not know that the function could potentially return null.
- What have we learned? It's all about intent! 
- By being explicit that such a function will return an Option, any consumer of the function can avoid **NullPointerException** by using **getOfElse() **or **Pattern Matching.**
- Not to worry, we will see examples of functions which return Option in upcoming tutorials.

This concludes our tutorial on **Learn How To Use Option - Avoid Null** and I hope you've found it useful!


## 总结

在这一节，我们介绍了以下内容：

- How to use Option and Some
- How to use Option and None
- How to use Pattern Matching with Option

## 提示

- You can use the **map()** function as a more elegant way of filtering out **None**.

```scala
println("\nTip 1: Filter None using map function")
glazedDonutTaste.map(taste => println(s"glazedDonutTaste = $taste"))
glazedDonutName.map(name => println(s"glazedDonutName = $name"))

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Tip 1: Filter None using map function
glazedDonutTaste = Very Tasty

```

**NOTE:**

- Notice that glazedDonutName was not printed as its value was None
- If the **map()** function is completely new to you, don't worry we will see more examples when we get to the tutorials on functions.

## 源码

源代码可以在 [Github - allaboutscala](https://github.com/nadimbahadoor/allaboutscala) 找到.

## 接下来是什么？

[下一节](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-2-learning-basics-scala-programming/scala-tutorial-learn-scala-class-type-hierarchy/), I will go over the **type** **hierarchy** in Scala.