# An Overview Of Scala Type Inference


在本节, we will build on what we've previously learned from [Tutorial 1](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-2-learning-basics-scala-programming/scala-basic-tutorial-declare-variables-types/) regarding how to declare variables in Scala.

 

More specifically, we will redo the examples from [Tutorial 1](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-2-learning-basics-scala-programming/scala-basic-tutorial-declare-variables-types/) and show how Scala is able to **infer** **the data types** for our variables.

## Step

### 1. Scala type inference
Let's review the syntax for declaring immutable variables in Scala.

```scala
val <Name of our variable> : <Scala type> = <Some literal>


```

As an example, you can define an immutable variable named **donutsToBuy** of type **Int** and assign its value to **5**.

```scala
println("Step 1: Immutable variable")
val donutsToBuy: Int = 5

```

However, through **type inference**, Scala complier is smart enough to figure out that the literal 5 is actually  an Integer.

As a result, you can simplify the declaration of some immutable variable of type Int as follows:

```scala
val donutsBought = 5

```

### 2. Declaring Scala Supported Types Using Inference

With type inference in mind, let's redo the data types examples from the tutorial [How To Declare Variables And Types.](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-2-learning-basics-scala-programming/scala-basic-tutorial-declare-variables-types/)

```scala
println("\nStep 2: Scala Types")
val donutsBoughtToday = 5
val bigNumberOfDonuts = 100000000L
val smallNumberOfDonuts = 1
val priceOfDonut = 2.50
val donutPrice = 2.50f
val donutStoreName = "Allaboutscala Donut Store"
val donutByte = 0xa
val donutFirstLetter = 'D'
val nothing = ()

```

**NOTE:**

- We did not specify the data types for any of the above variables. 

### 3. Using Scala compiler to convert from one data type to another
The Scala compiler is also smart enough to **convert** from one data type into another. However, you should bear in mind that this conversion is fine so long as your resulting type is not lossy.

In the example below, say you have **numberOfDonuts** which is of the type **Short**. But at some later point in your code, you decide to assign it's value to  another  immutable variable called **minimumDonutsToBuy** of type **Int**.

```scala
println("\nStep 3: Using Scala compiler to convert from one data type to another")
val numberOfDonuts: Short = 1
val minimumDonutsToBuy: Int = numberOfDonuts

```

**NOTE:**

- Converting from a Short to an Int was fine because there was no precision loss, i.e. an Int is larger than a Short.

### 4. User driven conversion from one data type to another
The example in Step 3 showed how the Scala compiler **automatically** **converted a Short into an Int**. But, what would happen if we had a variable **minimumDonutsToSell** of type String? Let's try it.

```scala
println("\nStep 4: User driven conversion from one data type to another ")
// NB: You cannot convert from an Int to a String
// val minimumDonutsToSell: String = numberOfDonuts

```

The compiler complains with the following error: **type mismatch found Short required String**. As we've outlined in the tutorial on the [Scala features](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/scala-introduction/scala-functional-programming-features/), Scala's type safety guardrails are here to help us!

So how then would you convert an Int to String? As expected in a fluent functional language, you have access to built in conversion functions. In our example, you can call the **toString** **function** on numberOfDonuts:

```scala
val minimumDonutsToSell: String = numberOfDonuts.toString()

```

This concludes our tutorial on **An Overview Of Scala Type Inference** and I hope you've found it useful!


## 总结

在这一节，我们介绍了以下内容：

- How Scala is able to infer the type of our variables
- How Scala is able to convert from one data type into another
- How to manually tell Scala to convert one data type into another

## 提示

- Type inference can be incredibly useful such as to avoid redundant code when initializing collections for some given type.
- But use it wisely. It is a good practice to be clear about the intent of your data type especially when it comes to the return type of a function.

## 源码

源代码可以在 [Github - allaboutscala](https://github.com/nadimbahadoor/allaboutscala) 找到.

 

## 接下来是什么？

[下一节](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-2-learning-basics-scala-programming/scala-tutorial-use-if-else-statement-expression/), I will go over if and else expressions in Scala.

 

Stay tuned!
