# How To Use If Else Statement And Expression


在本节, we will go over the** if and else expressions**. If you are coming from other languages such as **Java** or **.NET**, this should be familiar, but with one caveat!

 

In Scala, you can use the if and else clause as a **statement** to test for some condition or logical step. In addition, you can also use if and else clause as an **expression** where you get back the result of your condition or logical step.

## 步骤

### 1. Using if clause as a statement

Let's declare two immutable integer variables namely **numberOfPeople** and **donutsPerPerson**. For simplicity, we are using Scala's** type inference** when declaring the variables which we have seen in the previous [Type Inference tutorial](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-2-learning-basics-scala-programming/scala-tutorial-overview-scala-type-inference/). We then check if the **numberOfPeople** **is greater than** **10** and will print the number of donuts to be bought.

```scala
println("Step 1: Using if clause as a statement")
val numberOfPeople = 20
val donutsPerPerson = 2

if(numberOfPeople > 10)
  println(s"Number of donuts to buy = ${numberOfPeople * donutsPerPerson}")

```

**NOTE:**

- We are leveraging what we've learned from the [Scala String Interpolation tutorial](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-2-learning-basics-scala-programming/scala-string-interpolation-print-format-variables/) to help us build the String inside the println() function.

### 2. Using if and else clause as a statement

Now that we know how to write an if statement, let's extend the example from Step 1 and add an **else clause** to print a default number of donuts you need to buy if there is **less that 10** persons.

```scala
println(s"\nStep 2: Using if and else clause as a statement")
val defaultDonutsToBuy = 8

if(numberOfPeople > 10)
  println(s"Number of donuts to buy = ${numberOfPeople * donutsPerPerson}")
else
  println(s"Number of donuts to buy = $defaultDonutsToBuy")

```

### 3. Using if, else if, and else clause as a statement

Let's extend once more our if statement to include and **else if clause** as follows:

```scala
println("\nStep 3: Using if, else if, and else clause as a statement")
if(numberOfPeople > 10) {
  println(s"Number of donuts to buy = ${numberOfPeople * donutsPerPerson}")
} else if (numberOfPeople == 0) {
  println("Number of people is zero.")
  println("No need to buy donuts.")
} else {
  println(s"Number of donuts to buy = $defaultDonutsToBuy")
}

```

**NOTE:**

- It's a good practice to enclose your if, else, else if statements with **curly braces {}** as they get more complex.

### 4. Using if and else clause as expression

What if you had to **store the result** of the if and else expressions above into a **variable**. With Scala, you can easily inline this as follows:

```scala
println("\nStep 4: Using if and else clause as expression")
val numberOfDonutsToBuy = if(numberOfPeople > 10) (numberOfPeople * donutsPerPerson) else defaultDonutsToBuy
println(s"Number of donuts to buy = $numberOfDonutsToBuy")

```

**NOTE:**

- In another language such as **Java** or **.NET**, you would have used the [Ternary Operator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%3F:#Java)to achieve Step 4.
- Perhaps Scala's functional style is much easier to read and less error prone compared to the ternary operator.

This concludes our tutorial on** How To Use If Else Statement And Expression** and I hope you've found it useful!

 


## 总结

在这一节，我们介绍了以下内容：

- How to use a simple if statement
- How to use an if and else statement
- How to use an if, else if and else statement
- How to use if and else clause as expressions which can be assigned to a variable

## 提示

- In upcoming tutorials, we will go over **pattern matching** which is more popular in functional programming rather than using if and else expressions.
- By now you should have noticed that in Scala there is no need to terminate each statement with a **semi-colon ;**. If you are coming from **Java** or **.NET** it may take some time to get used to it. But this is yet another example of how Scala allows us to not over-clutter our code base and make it more readable!

## 源码

源代码可以在 [Github - allaboutscala](https://github.com/nadimbahadoor/allaboutscala) 找到.

 

## 接下来是什么？

[下一节](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-2-learning-basics-scala-programming/scala-tutorial-learn-use-for-comprehension/), I will go over for loop constructs in Scala and show how you can apply filters on your for loops.

