# Learn How To Use For Comprehension


在本节, we will go over the **for comprehension** construct in Scala. If you are coming from another mainstream language such as **Java** or **.NET**, a for loop should be fairly self explanatory in that you are writing a piece of code to iterate over some data points.

But, the Scala **for comprehension** can do much more! As an example and similar to the [previous tutorial on using IF And Else Expressions](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-2-learning-basics-scala-programming/scala-tutorial-use-if-else-statement-expression/), the for construct in Scala can return a value!

## 步骤

### 1. A simple for loop from 1 to 5 inclusive
Let's show how to do a simple **for loop** by iterating from **1 to 5** and print the immutable variable **numberOfDonuts** during each iteration.

```scala
println("Step 1: A simple for loop from 1 to 5 inclusive")
for(numberOfDonuts <- 1 to 5){
  println(s"Number of donuts to buy = $numberOfDonuts")
}

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Number of donuts to buy = 1
Number of donuts to buy = 2
Number of donuts to buy = 3
Number of donuts to buy = 4
Number of donuts to buy = 5

```

**NOTE:**

- We used the keyword `to` which meant that iteration number 5 was included.

### 2. A simple for loop from 1 to 5, where 5 is NOT inclusive

What if we wanted to iterate through numbers 1 to 4? In other words, the last iteration for number **5 will not be included**. If you have used **Java** or .**NET** for loop to iterate through arrays or other collections, I'm pretty sure that at some point you must have encountered bugs in your code because you had used a **<=** instead of** <** or vice versa in your loop.

Scala's language fluency with the use of keyword `until` makes it clear that your for loop will **NOT** include the last iteration.

```scala
println("\nStep 2: A simple for loop from 1 to 5, where 5 is NOT inclusive")
for(numberOfDonuts <- 1 until 5){
  println(s"Number of donuts to buy = $numberOfDonuts")
}

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Number of donuts to buy = 1
Number of donuts to buy = 2
Number of donuts to buy = 3
Number of donuts to buy = 4

```

**NOTE:**

- We used of keyword `until` which meant that the iteration number 5 was **NOT**included.

### 3. Filter values using if conditions in for loop

Now that you are familiar with the for loop syntax from Step 1 and 2, let us show that in Scala you can also use** if clause** to add filtering support as you iterate through your items.

As an example, let's store a **List** of ingredients for baking donuts into an immutable variable called **donutIngredients**. We then loop through each ingredient in the list and filter out all items except for the "**sugar**" item.

```scala
println("\nStep 3: Filter values using if conditions in for loop")
val donutIngredients = List("flour", "sugar", "egg yolks", "syrup", "flavouring")
for(ingredient <- donutIngredients if ingredient == "sugar"){
  println(s"Found sweetening ingredient = $ingredient")
}

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Found sweetening ingredient = sugar

```

**NOTE:**

- This is the first time we are showing how to **declare** and use a **List**. If you are coming from **Java** or **.NET**, you may be surprised not to find the **new** keyword used when declaring the List object. This is made possible in Scala using **companion objects**which we will see in upcoming tutorials.
- We used the if expression within the for loop itself!
- There are however better ways at filtering out items from collections which we will see in upcoming tutorials.

### 4. Filter values using if conditions in for loop and return the result back using the yield keyword

Let's expand the example in Step 3 and **filter** for either "**sugar**" or "**syrup**" ingredients in our **donutsIngredients** list. Instead of using the** ()**, we are using the **{}** in our for comprehension to make our expressions more explicit.

In addition, to **return the result** of the for comprehension and store it in the **sweeteningIngredients** variable, we will make use of the `yield` keyword.

```scala
println("\nStep 4: Filter values using if conditions in for loop and return the result back using the yield keyword")
val sweeteningIngredients = for {
  ingredient <- donutIngredients
  if (ingredient == "sugar" || ingredient == "syrup")
} yield ingredient
println(s"Sweetening ingredients = $sweeteningIngredients")

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Sweetening ingredients = List(sugar, syrup)

```

### 5. Using for comprehension to loop through 2-Dimensional array

It is very common in other programming languages to work with **2-Dimensional arrays**. Let's create a 2-Dimensional array consisting of 4 elements of our donuts Ingredients.

To do this, we will use **Scala Array class** and call the **ofDim()** function, pass in the type of String in square brackets **[String]** and then specify our **2 by 2 array** in the function parameter. We then fill in each element of our 2-Dimensional array as follows:

```scala
val twoDimensionalArray = Array.ofDim[String](2,2)
twoDimensionalArray(0)(0) = "flour"
twoDimensionalArray(0)(1) = "sugar"
twoDimensionalArray(1)(0) = "egg"
twoDimensionalArray(1)(1) = "syrup"

```

To iterate through your 2-Dimensional array, you can use the for comprehension and first declare an **x** variable to loop from **0 until 2**, followed by a second iteration again from **0 until 2** which you will store in variable **y**. After the closing** }** of our for loop, you can call println() to print each element of our 2-Dimensional array.

```scala
for { x <- 0 until 2
       y <- 0 until 2
} println(s"Donut ingredient at index ${(x,y)} = ${twoDimensionalArray(x)(y)}")

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Step 5: Using for comprehension to loop through 2-Dimensional array
Donut ingredient at index (0,0) = flour
Donut ingredient at index (0,1) = sugar
Donut ingredient at index (1,0) = egg
Donut ingredient at index (1,1) = syrup

```

**NOTE:**

- We are making use of [String interpolation](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-2-learning-basics-scala-programming/scala-string-interpolation-print-format-variables/) in our println() function.
- Learn more from our previous tutorial on [Scala's String interpolation](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-2-learning-basics-scala-programming/scala-string-interpolation-print-format-variables/) feature.

This concludes our tutorial on** Learn How To Use For Comprehension** and I hope you've found it useful!


## 总结

在这一节，我们介绍了以下内容：

- How to use a for comprehension to loop and iterate from 1 to 5 inclusive
- How to use a for comprehension to loop and iterate from 1 until 5, where the fifth iteration is not included
- How to filter values using if conditions in a for loop
- How to create and use for comprehension for looping over 2-Dimensional arrays.

## 提示

- As you get more familiar with functional style of programming, Scala's for comprehension will quickly become your new best friend :)
- Moreover, as we get to tutorials on say Futures, you will see even more hidden powers of the for comprehension!

## 源码

The source code is available on the [allaboutscala](https://github.com/nadimbahadoor/allaboutscala) GitHub repository.

 

## 接下来是什么？

[下一节](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-2-learning-basics-scala-programming/scala-tutorial-learn-use-range-inclusive-exclusive/), I will explain in more detail Scala's **Range** construct. As an example, our for loop in Step 1 contained a simple range which was **numberOfDonuts <-1 to 5**

 

Stay tuned!
