# Scala Tutorial - Learn How To Create Variable Argument Function - varargs _: *

在本节, we will learn how to create functions which take **variable arguments or varargs**. In addition, you will learn how to pass-through Scala collection such as List or Sequence or even an Array to variable argument function using the syntax **_: \***.****

## 步骤

### 1. How to define function which takes variable number of arguments

As a simple example, let's define a function named printReport() and it will have a single **variable argument** which represents the names of donuts for which we will print a report.

```scala
def printReport(names: String*) {
println(s"""Donut Report = ${names.mkString(", ")}""")
}

```

**NOTE:**

- The **names** argument is of type String, but it is also a variable argument as we've defined it using the ***** syntax.
- As a variable argument, you will be allowed to call the printReport() function by passing zero or many parameters of type String as shown in Step 2 below.

### 2. How to call function which takes variable number of String arguments

Since the printReport() function takes a **variable argument** called **names** of type String, you are allowed to call the function with zero or many String values.

```scala
println("\nStep 2: How to call function which takes variable number of String arguments")
printReport("Glazed Donut", "Strawberry Donut", "Vanilla Donut")
printReport("Chocolate Donut")

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Step 2: How to call function which takes variable number of String arguments
Donut Report = Glazed Donut, Strawberry Donut, Vanilla Donut
Donut Report = Chocolate Donut

```

 

### 3. How to pass a List to a function with variable number of arguments

What if you had a variable argument function and had to pass in a **List** to it?

```scala
println("\nStep 3: How to pass a List to a function with variable number of arguments")
val listDonuts: List[String] = List("Glazed Donut", "Strawberry Donut", "Vanilla Donut")
printReport(listDonuts)

```

**NOTE:**

- Calling printReport() function by passing it the listDonuts value which is a List of type String will give you a compiler error!

Instead, you will need to use a special syntax called **type ascription** as follows:

```scala
printReport(listDonuts: _*)

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Step 3: How to pass a List to a function with variable number of arguments
Donut Report = Glazed Donut, Strawberry Donut, Vanilla Donut

```

 

### 4. How to pass a Sequence to a function with variable number of arguments

What if you had a variable argument function and had to pass in a **Sequence** to it?

```scala
println("\nStep 4: How to pass a Sequence to a function with variable number of arguments")
val seqDonuts: Seq[String] = Seq("Chocolate Donut", "Plain Donut")
printReport(listDonuts)

```

**NOTE:**

- Calling printReport() function by passing it the seqDonuts value which is a Sequence of type String will give you a compiler error!

Instead, you will need to use a special syntax called **type ascription** as follows:

```scala
printReport(seqDonuts: _*)

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Step 4: How to pass a Sequence to a function with variable number of arguments
Donut Report = Glazed Donut, Strawberry Donut, Vanilla Donut

```

 

### 5. How to pass an Array to a function with variable number of arguments

What if you had a variable argument function and had to pass in a **Array** to it?

```scala
println("\nStep 5: How to pass an Array to a function with variable number of arguments")
val arrDonuts: Array[String] = Array("Coconut Donut")
printReport(arrDonuts)

```

**NOTE:**

- Calling printReport() function by passing it the arrDonuts value which is a Array of type String will give you a compiler error!

Instead, you will need to use a special syntax called **type ascription** as follows:

```scala
printReport(arrDonuts: _*)

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Step 5: How to pass an Array to a function with variable number of arguments
Donut Report = Coconut Donut

```

This concludes our tutorial on **Learn How To Create Variable Argument Function - varargs _: \* **and I hope you've found it useful!

 

## 总结

在这一节，我们介绍了以下内容：

- How to define function which takes variable number of arguments
- How to call function which takes variable number of String arguments
- How to pass a List to a function with variable number of arguments
- How to pass a Sequence to a function with variable number of arguments
- How to pass an Array to a function with variable number of arguments

## 提示

- To learn more about type ascription, you can review the [Scala documentation](http://docs.scala-lang.org/style/types.html).

## 源码

源代码可以在 [Github - allaboutscala](https://github.com/nadimbahadoor/allaboutscala) 找到.

 

## 接下来是什么？

[下一节](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-functions-scala/scala-tutorial-learn-create-functions-symbols/), I will show you how to define functions whose **names** are **symbols**.
