# Scala Tutorial - Learn How To Create Functions As Symbols



在本节, we will learn how to create functions which are named using just **symbols** as opposed to alphabets. This feature of Scala is a great building block when you have to create **Domain Specific Language** syntax.****

 

A great example would be the use of the **!** symbol in the [Akka Framework](http://akka.io/) when sending messages to an Akka Actor.

```scala
myActor ! "Hello World"

```

## 步骤

### 1. How to create and instantiate a class

Let's start with creating a class named DonutCostCalculator and hard-coding a value for the total cost as 100. I'm sure in practice you will not be hard-coding the total cost value in your program :)

```scala
class DonutCostCalculator {

// We are hard-coding the totalCost value for simplicity.
val totalCost = 100
}

```

Next, let's add a function named minusDiscount() which will return the totalCost - some discount parameter.

```scala
def minusDiscount(discount: Double): Double = {
  totalCost - discount
}

```

Next, let's create an instance of the DonutCostCalculator as follows:

```scala
println("Step 1: How to create and instantiate a class")
val donutCostCalculator = new DonutCostCalculator()

```

 

### 2. How to call a function from an instantiated class

If you have used Java or .NET in the past, calling a function on an instantiated class should feel very familiar.

 

To call the minusDiscount() function, you simply need to call the function on the donutCostCalculator value.

```scala
println("\nStep 2: How to call a function from an instantiated class")
println(s"Calling minusDiscount() function = ${donutCostCalculator.minusDiscount(10.5)}")

```

**NOTE:**

- Since the minusDiscount() function accepts a Double as its parameter, we are passing some random double of 10.5.

### 3. How to define function whose name is just the symbol minus  

Defining a function whose name is a symbol is essentially identical to defining any other functions. Instead of having a name, the function will be defined with some symbol.

```scala
// Step 3: How to define function whose name is just the symbol minus -
def -(discount: Double): Double = {
  totalCost - discount
}

```

**NOTE:**

- We've defined a function called **-** where the name of function is simply the symbol **-**itself.

### 4. How to call function whose name is just a symbol

Calling a function whose name is just a symbol like the - function from Step 3 above is no different than how you would call any other functions.

```scala
println("\nStep 4: How to call function whose name is just the symbol -")
println(s"Calling function - = ${donutCostCalculator.-(10.5)}")

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Step 4: How to call function whose name is just the symbol -
Calling function - = 89.5

```

 

### 5. How to call a function using the operator style notation

Scala allows you to call functions using the operator style notation as shown below:

```scala
println("\nStep 5: How to call a function using the operator style notation")
println(s"Calling function - with operator style notation = ${donutCostCalculator - 10.5}")

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Step 5: How to call a function using the operator style notation
Calling function - with operator style notation = 89.5

```

**NOTE:**

- Calling a function using the operator style is not much different than calling a function except that you do not need to specify the **.**
- Using operator style is more clear when calling functions whose names are just symbols.

### 6. How to define function whose name is just the symbols +++

Now that you know how to define functions whose names are just symbols, let us create another function named +++.

```scala
// Step 6: How to define function whose name is just the symbols +++
def +++(taxAmount: Double): Double = {
  totalCost + taxAmount
}

```

**NOTE:**

- This is where it starts getting a bit trickier when defining functions with symbols.
- Is +++ clear that we are adding some taxes to the totalCost? Probably not!
- While using functions which are defined as symbols can be very powerful, try not to abuse this feature as shown here.

This concludes our tutorial on **Learn How To Create Functions As Symbols **and I hope you've found it useful!


## 总结

在这一节，我们介绍了以下内容：

- How to create and instantiate a class
- How to call a function from an instantiated class
- How to define function whose name is just the symbol minus
- How to call function whose name is just a symbol
- How to call a function using the operator style notation
- How to define function whose name is just symbols +++

## 提示

- Defining functions using symbols is a great feature of Scala to allow you to create **Domain Specific Language (DSL)**.
- However, as shown in Step 6, make sure that the **symbols** you use **are clear** to the consumer of your API.

## 源码

源代码可以在 [Github - allaboutscala](https://github.com/nadimbahadoor/allaboutscala) 找到.

 

## 接下来是什么？

[下一节](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-functions-scala/scala-tutorial-create-function-currying-parameter-groups/), I will show you how to define **curried** **functions** whose **parameters are defined in groups.**
