# Scala Tutorial - Learn How To Create Function Currying With Parameter Groups

在本节, we will learn how to create functions whose parameters are organized into **parameter groups** - also known as **Function** **Currying**.

 

In addition, you will be introduced to creating **Partial** **Functions** from **curried** **functions**.

## 步骤

### 1. How to define function with curried parameter groups

By now you should be familiar with defining functions with parameters if you have followed [Chapter 3 tutorials on functions](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-functions-scala/).

 

However, Scala also allows you to create functions where each parameter is enclosed within its own group using the **()** as shown below:

```scala
println("Step 1: How to define function with curried parameter groups")
def totalCost(donutType: String)(quantity: Int)(discount: Double): Double = {
  println(s"Calculating total cost for $quantity $donutType with ${discount * 100}% discount")
  val totalCost = 2.50 * quantity
  totalCost - (totalCost * discount)
}

```

**NOTE:**

- Functions defined with parameter groups are also commonly referred to as **curried functions**.
- Each parameter is enclosed within () and there is **no** need to separate each parameter with comma as you would when defining a function with parameters.

### 2. How to call a function with curried parameter groups

When calling a curried function, you will need to fill in its parameters by enclosing each parameter within () as shown below:

```scala
println("\nStep 2: How to call a function with curried parameter groups")
println(s"Total cost = ${totalCost("Glazed Donut")(10)(0.1)}")

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Step 2: How to call a function with curried parameter groups
Calculating total cost for 10 Glazed Donut with 10.0% discount
Total cost = 22.5

```

 

### 3. How to create a partial function from a function with curried parameter groups

If you recall from the[ Scala Features tutorial,](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/scala-introduction/scala-functional-programming-features/) functions are designed from the ground up to be **first class citizens** in the language.

 

To this end, one common application of curried function is to be a building block where you can reuse functions by creating partial functions.

 

As a simple example, let's create a **partial function** named totalCostForGlazedDonuts which will call the curried totalCost() function from Step 1.

```scala
println("\nHow to create a partial function from a function with curried parameter groups")
val totalCostForGlazedDonuts = totalCost("Glazed Donut") _

```

**NOTE:**

- totalCostForGlazedDonuts function was defined as a **value** function using the **val**keyword as opposed to the **def** function. In upcoming tutorials, we will show additional examples of value functions.
- totalCostForGlazedDonuts is a **partial** **function** because it only fills in the first parameter Glazed Donut. It uses the wildcard **_** as a placeholder for the other parameters.

### 4. How to call a partial function

Calling the partial function totalCostForGlazedDonuts is no different than how you've called the curried function totalCost in Step 2 by enclosing each parameter within ().

 

However, you do not need to fill in the first parameter for the donutType String parameter as you have already pre-filled it with the Glazed Donut String value in Step 3.

```scala
println("\nStep 4: How to call a partial function")
println(s"\nTotal cost for Glazed Donuts ${totalCostForGlazedDonuts(10)(0.1)}")

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Step 4: How to call a partial function
Calculating total cost for 10 Glazed Donut with 10.0% discount
Total cost for Glazed Donuts 22.5

```

This concludes our tutorial on **Learn How To Create Function Currying With Parameter Groups **and I hope you've found it useful!

 


## 总结

在这一节，我们介绍了以下内容：

- How to define function with curried parameter groups
- How to call a function with curried parameter groups
- How to create a partial function from a function with curried parameter groups
- How to call a partial function

## 提示

- You can refer to the [Scala documentation](http://docs.scala-lang.org/tutorials/tour/currying.html) for additional information on currying functions.

## 源码

源代码可以在 [Github - allaboutscala](https://github.com/nadimbahadoor/allaboutscala) 找到.

 

## 接下来是什么？

[下一节](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-functions-scala/scala-tutorial-higher-order-function-parameter/), I will show you how to define function which takes **another** **function** as its **parameter**.
