# Scala Tutorial - Learn How To Create Higher Order Function - Function As Parameter



在本节, we will learn how to create **Higher Order Function** which is a function that takes another function as its parameter.

In addition, we will show how to pass-through an **anonymous** function or a **regular def**function to the **Higher Order Function**.



## 步骤

### 1. Review how to define function with curried parameter groups

Let's start by reviewing the totalCost() function from the [previous tutorial on Curried Function With Parameter Groups](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-functions-scala/scala-tutorial-create-function-currying-parameter-groups/).

```scala
println("Step 1: Review how to define function with curried parameter groups")
def totalCost(donutType: String)(quantity: Int)(discount: Double): Double = {
  println(s"Calculating total cost for $quantity $donutType with ${discount * 100}% discount")
  val totalCost = 2.50 * quantity
  totalCost - (totalCost * discount)
}

```

**NOTE:**

- The totalCost() function has a discount parameter which could be a potential candidate to pass-through a function to apply the discount logic.
- In other words, let's redefine the totalCost() function to take another function for the discount parameter a shown below in Step 2.

### 2. How to define a higher order function which takes another function as parameter

A **Higher Order Function** is a function which takes another function as its parameters.

 

Instead of the discount parameter, let's define a parameter which is a function that has an input parameter of type Double and will also return a type of Double using the syntax `(f: Double => Double)`

```scala
println("\nStep 2: How to define a higher order function which takes another function as parameter")
def totalCostWithDiscountFunctionParameter(donutType: String)(quantity: Int)(f: Double => Double): Double = {
  println(s"Calculating total cost for $quantity $donutType")
  val totalCost = 2.50 * quantity
  f(totalCost)
}

```

**NOTE:**

- In the totalCostWithDiscountFunctionParameter() function, you call the function **f** by passing it the totalCost value`f(totalCost)`
- This function** f** will be provided at the time when you call thetotalCostWithDiscountFunctionParameter() function.

### 3. How to call higher order function and pass an anonymous function as parameter

The totalCostWithDiscountFunctionParameter() **Higher Order Function** defined in Step 2 now expects a discount function to be passed-through.

 

For this example, we will pass through an **anonymous** function which will apply the discount logic to the totalCost value as shown below:

```scala
println("\nStep 3: How to call higher order function and pass an anonymous function as parameter")
  val totalCostOf5Donuts = totalCostWithDiscountFunctionParameter("Glazed Donut")(5){totalCost =>
  val discount = 2 // assume you fetch discount from database
  totalCost - discount
}
println(s"Total cost of 5 Glazed Donuts with anonymous discount function = $totalCostOf5Donuts")

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Step 3: How to call higher order function and pass an anonymous function as parameter
Calculating total cost for 5 Glazed Donut
Total cost of 5 Glazed Donuts with anonymous discount function = 10.5

```

 

### 4. How to define and pass a function to a higher order function

A better approach to Step 3 is to pass-through a common discount function which would encapsulate the discount logic instead of providing an **anonymous** function.

 

To this end, let's create a function named applyDiscount as follows:

```scala
println("\nStep 4: How to define and pass a function to a higher order function")
def applyDiscount(totalCost: Double): Double = {
  val discount = 2 // assume you fetch discount from database
  totalCost - discount
}

```

You can then pass-through the applyDiscount() function to the totalCostWithDiscountFunctionParameter() function as follows:

```scala
println(s"Total cost of 5 Glazed Donuts with discount function = ${totalCostWithDiscountFunctionParameter("Glazed Donut")(5)(applyDiscount(_))}")

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Step 4: How to define and pass a function to a higher order function
Calculating total cost for 5 Glazed Donut
Total cost of 5 Glazed Donuts with discount function = 10.5

```

This concludes our tutorial on **Learn How To Create Higher Order Function - Function As Parameter **and I hope you've found it useful!

## 总结

在这一节，我们介绍了以下内容：

- How to define function with curried parameter groups
- How to define a Higher Order Function which takes another function as parameter
- How to call Higher Order Function and pass an anonymous function as parameter
- How to define and pass-through a function to a Higher Order Function

## 提示

- You can refer to the [Scala documentation](http://docs.scala-lang.org/tutorials/tour/higher-order-functions.html) for additional information on Higher Order Functions.

## 源码

The source code is available on the [allaboutscala GitHub repository.](https://github.com/nadimbahadoor/allaboutscala)

## 接下来是什么？

[下一节](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-functions-scala/scala-tutorial-learn-create-call-name-function/), I will continue the discussion on **Higher Order Function** and show you how to define **by-name** functions.
