# Scala Tutorial - Learn Function Composition Using Compose

在本节, we will learn how to create value functions which are defined using the **val**keyword as opposed to using the **def** keyword.

 

Val functions inherit the **compose** function and we will show how to use the **compose** function to compose two functions together.

 

Mathematically speaking, **f(x) compose g(x) = f(g(x))**. The second function g(x) is ran first and its result is passed along to the function f(x).

 

Note however that the ordering when composing function using the **compose** method is different to using **andThen** as shown in the [Function Composition Using AndThen Tutorial](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-functions-scala/scala-tutorial-learn-function-composition-andthen/).

 

Mathematically speaking, **f(x) andThen g(x) = g(f(x))**. The results of the first function f(x) is ran first and will be passed as input to the second function g(x)

## 步骤

### 1. Assume a pre-calculated total cost amount

Let's start with a simple **totalCost** value which represents the total cost in dollar figure for a particular customer buying donuts from your store.

```scala
println("Step 1: Assume a pre-calculated total cost amount")
val totalCost: Double = 10

```

 

### 2. How to define a val function to apply discount to total cost

Similar to the example from the [previous tutorial on defining function with val keyword](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-functions-scala/scala-tutorial-learn-create-val-function-val-vs-def/), let's define a val function which will apply some discount dollar value from the total cost figure.

```scala
println("\nStep 2: How to define a val function to apply discount to total cost")
val applyDiscountValFunction = (amount: Double) => {
  println("Apply discount function")
  val discount = 2 // fetch discount from database
  amount - discount
}

```

 

### 3. How to call a val function
Calling the val function applyDiscountValFunction from Step 2 is very straight-forward. You simply need to pass it the totalCost value from Step 1.

```scala
println("\nStep 3: How to call a val function")
println(s"Total cost of 5 donuts with discount = ${applyDiscountValFunction(totalCost)}")

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Step 3: How to call a val function
Apply discount function
Total cost of 5 donuts with discount = 8.0

```

 

### 4. How to define a val function to apply tax to total cost

Let's go ahead and define another val function which should apply some tax amount to the totalCost value.

```scala
println("\nStep 4: How to define a val function to apply tax to total cost")
val applyTaxValFunction = (amount: Double) => {
  println("Apply tax function")
  val tax = 1 // fetch tax from database
  amount + tax
}

```

 

### 5. How to call compose on a val function

As we've seen from the [previous tutorial on defining function with val keyword](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-functions-scala/scala-tutorial-learn-create-val-function-val-vs-def/), val function inherits a **compose** function.

 

Calling **compose** will take the result from the second function and pass it as input parameter to the first function. Let's use the **compose** semantics to apply tax first and afterwards apply discount to the totalCost figure as shown below.

```scala
println("\nStep 5: How to call compose on a val function")
println(s"Total cost of 5 donuts = ${ (applyDiscountValFunction compose applyTaxValFunction)(totalCost) }")

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Step 5: How to call compose on a val function
Apply tax function
Apply discount function
Total cost of 5 donuts = 9.0

```

**NOTE:**

- The apply tax function was called first following which the apply discount function was called.
- The output from the apply tax function was also passed through as input parameter to the apply discount function
- Although in this example, the result is similar to using andThen as shown in the [previous tutorial](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-functions-scala/scala-tutorial-learn-function-composition-andthen/), bear in mind the difference in ordering between **andThen** and **compose**.
- Ordering using **andThen**: **f(x) andThen g(x) = g(f(x))**
- Ordering using **compose**: **f(x) compose g(x) = f(g(x))**

This concludes our tutorial on **Scala Tutorial - Learn Function Composition Using Compose **and I hope you've found it useful!

## 总结

在这一节，我们介绍了以下内容：

- How to define a value of type Double to represent total cost
- How to define a val function to apply discount to total cost
- How to call a val function
- How to define a value function to apply tax to total cost
- How to call compose on a val function

## 提示

- **val** functions are instances of **FunctionN** classes and if you look at the [Scala documentation for say Function1 class](http://www.scala-lang.org/api/rc2/scala/Function1.html), you will notice that **val** function will inherit other methods such as **andThen** or **compose** which allow for **function composition**.

## 源码

The source code is available on the [allaboutscala GitHub repository.](https://github.com/nadimbahadoor/allaboutscala)

 

## 接下来是什么？

[下一节](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-functions-scala/scala-tutorial-learn-create-tail-recursive-function-tailrec-annotation/), I will show you how to define function which is **tail recursive**.
