# Scala Tutorial - Learn How To Create Tail Recursive Function - @annotation.tailrec

在本节, we will learn how to create **tail recursive** function and also make use of the annotation **@annotation.tailrec** which will instruct the compiler to apply any further optimisation.

 

**Tail recursive** function will help prevent overflow in your call stack because the evaluation of your looping construct happens at each step.

 

If this does not make any sense at the moment, don't worry we will see an example below.

## 步骤

### 1. How to define an Array of type String

Let's start by defining an Array of type String to hold some donut items.

```scala
println("Step 1: How to define an Array of type String")
val arrayDonuts: Array[String] = Array("Vanilla Donut", "Strawberry Donut", "Plain Donut", "Glazed Donut")

```

 

### 2. How to define a tail recursive function

Next, let's define a tail recursive function named search() which will have the following input parameters:

- **donutName** parameter of type String for the donut item to search within the Array
- **donuts** parameter of type String Array for the donut items Array
- **index** parameter of type Int for the index within the Array on which to run the search

```scala
println("\nStep 2: How to define a tail recursive function")
@annotation.tailrec
def search(donutName: String, donuts: Array[String], index: Int): Option[Boolean] = {
  if(donuts.length == index) {
    None
  } else if(donuts(index) == donutName) {
    Some(true)
  } else {
    val nextIndex = index + 1
    search(donutName, donuts, nextIndex)
  }
}

```

**NOTE:**

- The body of the function could have inlined elegantly but we are showing each step verbosely so that it is more clear what the search function is doing.
- If you have never seen or written a tail recursive function, you can review each step of the function by debugging through. Follow the [Debugging Tutorial](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-1-getting-familiar-intellij-ide/intellij-debug-configuration-scala-application/) if you need help with debugging in IntelliJ.
- The very first expression `if(donuts.length == index)` is the exit call for the search function because we have looped through all elements within the Array.
- The second expression `else if(donuts(index) == donutName)` will exit the search function as we have found the donut item in the Array.
- In the third expression shown below

```scala
val nextIndex = index + 1
search(donutName, donuts, nextIndex)

```

we increment the current index by 1 and call the search function itself (this is the recursive bit) but for the next item in the Array.

- The **@annotation.tailrec** instructs the compiler to add any optimisations with regards to stack frame management as this function is recursive.

### 3. How to call a tail recursive function

Calling a tail recursive function is not so different than calling any other function. You simply call the function by its name and pass it the corresponding parameters.

```scala
println("\nStep 3: How to call a tail recursive function")
val found = search("Glazed Donut", arrayDonuts, 0)
println(s"Find Glazed Donut = $found")

val notFound = search("Chocolate Donut", arrayDonuts, 0)
println(s"Find Chocolate Donut = $notFound")

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Step 3: How to call a tail recursive function
Find Glazed Donut = Some(true)
Find Chocolate Donut = None

```

This concludes our tutorial on **Learn How To Create Tail Recursive Function - @annotation.tailrec **and I hope you've found it useful!


## 总结

在这一节，我们介绍了以下内容：

- How to define an Array of type String
- How to define a tail recursive function
- How to call a tail recursive function

## 提示

- The tail recursive search function in this tutorial also made use of Option.
- If you are not familiar with using Option, you can review the [Function With Option Return Type Tutorial](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-functions-scala/scala-tutorial-learn-create-function-return-type/) and the [How To Use Option And Avoid Null Tutorial](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-2-learning-basics-scala-programming/scala-tutorial-learn-use-option-avoid-null/).

## 源码

The source code is available on the [allaboutscala GitHub repository.](https://github.com/nadimbahadoor/allaboutscala)

 

## 接下来是什么？

[下一节](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-functions-scala/scala-tutorial-learn-create-tail-recursive-function-scala-control-util-tailcalls/), I will show you how to create **tail recursive** function by making use of **scala.util.control.TailCalls**.
