# Scala Tutorial - Learn How To Create Implicit Function



在本节, we will learn how to create **implicit** **function** which will allow you to provide **extension** methods or functions to pretty much any type or class.

 

As the name implies, Scala was designed from the ground up to be a **extensible**. Feel free to review the [Scala Features tutorial](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/scala-introduction/scala-functional-programming-features/) which outlines the use of **implicit** as one of the features which Scala provides to allow you to easily add **extension** methods or functions to any type or class.

 

To continue with our Donut Store examples from the previous tutorials, we will **extend** the String class such that it will have an **isFavoriteDonut()** function.

## 步骤

### 1. How to create a wrapper String class which will extend the String type

Let us create a simple **wrapper** class called DonutString which will take the String type as its parameter and then provide an **isFavoriteDonut()** function.

```scala
println("Step 1: How to create a wrapper String class which will extend the String type")
class DonutString(s: String) {

  def isFavoriteDonut: Boolean = s == "Glazed Donut"

}

```

**NOTE:**

- If you are coming from a **Java** or **.NET** programming background, you would perhaps be pleasantly surprised that in Scala you can simply compare two Strings using **==** as opposed to using **equals()** method.

### 2. How to create an implicit function to convert a String to the wrapper String class

It is a good practice to **encapsulate** your implicit functions or conversions into a **singleton**using **object**. You can also make use of **package object** which we will see in upcoming tutorials.

 

As such, let us define an **implicit** **function** named **stringToDonutString** which will take the **String** **type** as its parameter and wire it through a new instance of the **wrapper** **String** class named **DonutString** from Step 1.

```scala
println("\nStep 2: How to create an implicit function to convert a String to the wrapper String class")
object DonutConverstions {
  implicit def stringToDonutString(s: String) = new DonutString(s)
}

```

**NOTE:**

- Defining an **implicit** **function** is similar to defining any other functions except that we've prefixed the function signature using the **implicit** keyword.

### 3. How to import the String conversion so that it is in scope

In order to use the implicit String function which will convert a String type into a DonutString type, you will have to have the implicit function from Step 2 in **scope**. This can be achieved using the **import** keyword as shown below:

```scala
println("\nStep 3: How to import the String conversion so that it is in scope")
import DonutConverstions._

```

**NOTE:**

- As part of the import expression, we are using the **wildcard** operator** _** which will import any values or implicit functions.

### 4. How to create String values

Let us create two immutable values of type String, one for Glazed Donut and the other for Vanilla Donut.

```scala
println("\nStep 4: How to create String values")
val glazedDonut = "Glazed Donut"
val vanillaDonut = "Vanilla Donut"

```

**NOTE:**

- By now, you should be familiar with declaring variables and immutable values.
- Feel free to review the [tutorial on declaring variables](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-2-learning-basics-scala-programming/scala-basic-tutorial-declare-variables-types/).

### 5. How to access the custom String function called isFavaoriteDonut

How would you access the isFavoriteDonut() function from Step 1? Simple - just call it on the Glazed Donut or Vanilla Donut String values.

```scala
println("\nStep 5: How to access the custom String function called isFavaoriteDonut")
println(s"Is Glazed Donut my favorite Donut = ${glazedDonut.isFavoriteDonut}")
println(s"Is Vanilla Donut my favorite Donut = ${vanillaDonut.isFavoriteDonut}")

```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Step 5: How to access the custom String function called isFavaoriteDonut
Is Glazed Donut my favorite Donut = true
Is Vanilla Donut my favorite Donut = false

```

**NOTE:**

- The custom isFavoriteDonut() function looks **built-into** the String class.
- However, we** did not** have to manually modify the source code of the String class.
- Instead, we've used the secret powers of Scala's **implicit** **function** to **extend** the String class.

This concludes our tutorial on **Learn How To Create Implicit Function **and I hope you've found it useful!


## 总结

在这一节，我们介绍了以下内容：

- How to create a wrapper String class which will extend the String type
- How to create an implicit function to convert a String to the wrapper String class
- How to import the String conversion so that it is in scope
- How to create String immutable values
- How to access the custom String function called isFavoriteDonut()

## 提示

- It is a good practice to encapsulate your implicit functions and values into an **Object** or a **Package Object**.
- The [Scala Predef class ](http://www.scala-lang.org/api/rc2/scala/Predef$.html)makes use of implicit function to provide ready made conversions such as Java from/to Scala.

## 源码

源代码可以在 [Github - allaboutscala](https://github.com/nadimbahadoor/allaboutscala) 找到.

 

## 接下来是什么？

[下一节](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-functions-scala/scala-tutorial-learn-create-typed-function/), I will show you how to define functions which is **typed **such that you can provide the **parameter** **types** when calling the function.
