# Scala Tutorial - Learn How To Extend Class - Class Inheritance


在本节, we will learn the basics of [Class Inheritance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inheritance_(object-oriented_programming)) in Scala by creating an **abstract****class** and then **extending** it to create other **sub-classes**.

 

If you recall from the [tutorial on What is Scala programming language](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/scala-introduction/learn-scala-programming-language/), Scala is both an **Object Oriented** and **Functional programming** language. As a result of its **Object Oriented** nature, it has full support of object hierarchies through the use of **class inheritance**.

 

## 步骤

###1. How to define an abstract class called Donut 

When dealing with class and object hierarchies, you typically have a **base** class which encapsulates common behaviour. As an example, let's create an **abstract** class name Donut which defines a **method signature** for **printName**.

```scala
println("Step 1: How to define an abstract class called Donut")
 abstract class Donut(name: String) {

   def printName: Unit

}

```

 

**NOTE:**

- Any class which extends the **abstract** class Donut will have to provide an implementation for the **printName** method.

###2. How to extend abstract class Donut and define a sub-class of Donut called VanillaDonut

To create a** sub-class** of the **abstract** Donut class from Step 1, you have to use the **extends** keyword, pass-through the **name** constructor parameter and also provide an implementation for the **printName** method.

 

As shown in the example below, the class VanillaDonut **extends** the **abstract** class Donut and also provides an **implementation** for the **printName** method.

```scala
println("\nStep 2: How to extend abstract class Donut and define a sub-class of Donut called VanillaDonut")
 class VanillaDonut(name: String) extends Donut(name) {

   override def printName: Unit = println(name)

 }

 object VanillaDonut {

   def apply(name: String): Donut = {
     new VanillaDonut(name)
   }

}

```

**NOTE:**

- We've also created a[ Companion Object](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-classes-scala/scala-tutorial-learn-create-use-companion-objects/) for the VanillaDonut class.

###3. How to extend abstract class Donut and define another sub-class of Donut called GlazedDonut

Similar to Step 2, let's create another **sub-class** named GlazedDonut for the **abstract**Donut class.

```scala
println("\nStep 3: How to extend abstract class Donut and define another sub-class of Donut called GlazedDonut")
 class GlazedDonut(name: String) extends Donut(name) {

   override def printName: Unit = println(name)

 }

 object GlazedDonut {

   def apply(name: String): Donut = {
     new GlazedDonut(name)
   }

 }

```

**NOTE:**

- Similar to Step 2, we've also created a [Companion Object](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-classes-scala/scala-tutorial-learn-create-use-companion-objects/) for the GlazedDonut class.

###4. How to instantiate Donut objects

Let's create two Donut **objects**, one using the VanillaDonut class and the other one using the GlazedDonut class. Note that we are specifying the type for both **vanillaDonut** and **glazedDonut** to be of **base** type Donut.

```scala
println("\nStep 4: How to instantiate Donut objects")
val vanillaDonut: Donut = VanillaDonut("Vanilla Donut")
vanillaDonut.printName

val glazedDonut: Donut = GlazedDonut("Glazed Donut")
glazedDonut.printName


```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Step 4: How to instantiate Donut objects
Vanilla Donut
Glazed Donut

```

**NOTE:**

- Since VanillaDonut and GlazedDonut are **sub-classes** of the **base** class Donut, they both have access to the **printName** method.

This concludes our tutorial on **Learn How To Extend Class - Class Inheritance **and I hope you've found it useful!


## 总结

在这一节，我们介绍了以下内容：

- How to define an abstract class called Donut
- How to extend abstract class Donut and define a sub-class of Donut called VanillaDonut
- How to extend abstract class Donut and define another sub-class of Donut called GlazedDonut
- How to instantiate Donut objects

## 提示

- As we've seen in this tutorial, Scala provides support for the traditional **Object Oriented** approach regarding class inheritance by **extending** classes.
- However, in Chapter 5, we will show how Scala provides greater flexibility to **class inheritance** by making use of [mix-in](http://docs.scala-lang.org/tutorials/tour/mixin-class-composition.html) with **traits**.

## 源码

The source code is available on the [allaboutscala GitHub repository.](https://github.com/nadimbahadoor/allaboutscala)

 

## 接下来是什么？

[下一节](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-classes-scala/scala-extend-case-class/), I will show you how to apply **inheritance** to **case classes** in Scala.