# Scala Tutorial - Learn How To Create Type Class


在本节, we will continue from what we've learned from the previous tutorials on [Class Inheritance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inheritance_(object-oriented_programming)) and [Case Class Inheritance](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-classes-scala/scala-extend-case-class/) in Scala.

 

The examples in this tutorial will be a review of inheritance in Scala with **classes** and **case classes** which **extend** an **abstract** **class**. In addition, we will also define a class which expects a given type - **type class**.

 

If you recall from the [tutorial on What is Scala programming language](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/scala-introduction/learn-scala-programming-language/), Scala is both an **Object Oriented** and **Functional programming** language. As a result of its **Object Oriented** nature, it has full support of object hierarchies through the use of **class inheritance**.

 

## 步骤

###1. How to define an abstract class called Donut 

When dealing with class and object hierarchies, you typically have a **base** class which encapsulates common behaviour. As an example, let's create an **abstract** class name Donut which defines a **method signature** for **printName**.

```scala
println("Step 1: How to define an abstract class called Donut")
 abstract class Donut(name: String) {

   def printName: Unit

}

```

**NOTE:**

- Any class which extends the **abstract** class Donut will have to provide an implementation for the **printName** method.

###2. How to extend abstract class Donut and define a case class called VanillaDonut

To create a** sub-class** of the **abstract** Donut class from Step 1, you have to use the **extends** keyword, pass-through the **name** constructor parameter and also provide an implementation for the **printName** method.

 

As shown in the example below, the **case class** VanillaDonut **extends** the **abstract** class Donut and also provides an **implementation** for the **printName** method.

```scala
println("\nStep 2: How to extend abstract class Donut and define a case class called VanillaDonut")
 case class VanillaDonut(name: String) extends Donut(name) {

   override def printName: Unit = println(name)

 }


```

**NOTE:**

- Unlike the previous [tutorial on Class Inheritance](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-classes-scala/scala-extend-class/), we did **not** have to create a[Companion Object](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-classes-scala/scala-tutorial-learn-create-use-companion-objects/) for the VanillaDonut **case class** because the **case class** will automatically provide a companion object.

###3. How to extend abstract class Donut and define another case class of Donut called GlazedDonut

Similar to Step 2, let's create another **case class** named GlazedDonut which extends the **abstract** Donut class.

```scala
println("\nStep 3: How to extend abstract class Donut and define another case class called GlazedDonut")
 case class GlazedDonut(name: String) extends Donut(name) {

   override def printName: Unit = println(name)

 }


```

**NOTE:**

- Similar to Step 2, we did **not** have to create a [Companion Object](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-classes-scala/scala-tutorial-learn-create-use-companion-objects/) for the GlazedDonut class.

###4. How to instantiate Donut objects

Let's create two Donut **objects**, one using the VanillaDonut class and the other one using the GlazedDonut class. Note that we are specifying the type for both **vanillaDonut** and **glazedDonut** to be of **base** type Donut.

```scala
println("\nStep 4: How to instantiate Donut objects")
val vanillaDonut: Donut = VanillaDonut("Vanilla Donut")
vanillaDonut.printName

val glazedDonut: Donut = GlazedDonut("Glazed Donut")
glazedDonut.printName


```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Step 4: How to instantiate Donut objects
Vanilla Donut
Glazed Donut

```

**NOTE:**

- Since VanillaDonut and GlazedDonut are **sub-classes** of the **base** class Donut, they both have access to the **printName** method.

###5. How to define a ShoppingCart type class which expects Donut types

The above steps should be familiar already if you have followed the previous tutorials on [Class Inheritance](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-classes-scala/scala-extend-class/) and [Case Class Inheritance](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-classes-scala/scala-extend-case-class/).

 

What if you had to define a **class** which expects a particular **type** **parameter**? As an example, let us define a ShoppingCart class which expects a sequence of Donut types.

```scala
println("\nStep 5: How to define a ShoppingCart type class which expects Donut types")
class ShoppingCart[D <: Donut](donuts: Seq[D]) {

  def printCartItems: Unit = donuts.foreach(_.printName)

}

```

**NOTE:**

- With the notation **[D <: Donut]**, we are **restricting** only Donut types to be passed-through to the ShoppingCart class.

###6. How to create instances or objects of ShoppingCart class

The example below shows how to instantiate a ShoppingCart class of type Donut.

```scala
println("\nStep 6: How to create instances or objects of ShoppingCart class")
val shoppingCart: ShoppingCart[Donut] = new ShoppingCart(Seq[Donut](vanillaDonut, glazedDonut))
shoppingCart.printCartItems


```

当在 IntelliJ 中运行你的Scala应用程序时，你应该可以看到以下的输出

```scala
Step 6: How to create instances or objects of ShoppingCart class
Vanilla Donut
Glazed Donut

```

**NOTE:**

- You will get compiler error if you try to instantiate a ShoppingCart class with a different type other than the Donut type.
- As an example, you will get a compiler error if you tried to create ShoppingCart of type String

```scala
val shoppingCart2: ShoppingCart[Donut] = new ShoppingCart[String](Seq("Vanilla Donut"))

```

This concludes our tutorial on **Learn How To Create Type Class **and I hope you've found it useful!


## 总结

在这一节，我们介绍了以下内容：

- How to define an abstract class called Donut
- How to extend abstract class Donut and define a case class called VanillaDonut
- How to extend abstract class Donut and define another case class of Donut called GlazedDonut
- How to instantiate Donut objects
- How to define a ShoppingCart type class which expects Donut types
- How to create instances or objects of ShoppingCart class

## 提示

- As we've seen in this tutorial, Scala provides support for the traditional **Object Oriented** approach regarding class inheritance by **extending** classes.
- **Avoid** having a **case class extend** other **case classes**. Instead, encapsulate common behaviour in an **abstract class - **[see Scala Documentation](http://docs.scala-lang.org/tutorials/tour/case-classes.html).
- However, in Chapter 5, we will show how Scala provides greater flexibility to **class inheritance** by making use of [mix-in](http://docs.scala-lang.org/tutorials/tour/mixin-class-composition.html) with **traits**.
- In the next tutorials, we will expand on what we've learned on **type classes** and go over **variance** in Scala - **covariance** and **contra-variance**.

## 源码

The source code is available on the [allaboutscala GitHub repository.](https://github.com/nadimbahadoor/allaboutscala)

 

## 接下来是什么？

[下一节](http://allaboutscala.com/tutorials/chapter-3-beginner-tutorial-using-classes-scala/scala-variance-covariance/), I will show you how to specify **covariance to** **type classes** in Scala.